run-E2SAR/container/README.md, before:

 
 # E2SAR Container Setup

This directory contains the containerized version of E2SAR sender and receiver applications. The setup includes a script to easily start both containers with configurable parameters.

## Prerequisites

- Docker installed and running
- The `e2sar-container` image built from the provided Dockerfile

## Quick Start

1. Make the start script executable:
```bash
chmod +x start_containers.sh
```

2. Run the containers with minimum required parameters:
```bash
./start_containers.sh \
  --sender-ip <sender_ip> \
  --receiver-ip <receiver_ip> \
  --lb-ip <load_balancer_ip>
```

## Configuration Options

The `start_containers.sh` script supports the following parameters:

| Parameter | Description | Default Value |
|-----------|-------------|---------------|
| --sender-ip | Sender IP address | Required |
| --receiver-ip | Receiver IP address | Required |
| --lb-ip | Load balancer IP address | Required |
| --mtu | MTU size | 9000 |
| --rate | Send rate | 10 |
| --length | Message length | 1000000 |
| --num-events | Number of events | 10000 |
| --buf-size | Buffer size | 314572800 |
| --duration | Test duration in seconds | 30 |
| --port | Receiver port | 19522 |
| --threads | Number of threads | 1 |

## Example Usage

1. Basic usage with only required parameters:
```bash
./start_containers.sh \
  --sender-ip 192.168.1.10 \
  --receiver-ip 192.168.1.11 \
  --lb-ip 192.168.1.100
```

2. Advanced usage with custom parameters:
```bash
./start_containers.sh \
  --sender-ip 192.168.1.10 \
  --receiver-ip 192.168.1.11 \
  --lb-ip 192.168.1.100 \
  --mtu 9000 \
  --rate 20 \
  --length 2000000 \
  --duration 60 \
  --threads 4
```

## Container Management

### View Container Logs
```bash
# View receiver logs
docker logs e2sar-receiver

# View sender logs
docker logs e2sar-sender
```

### Stop and Remove Containers
```bash
# Stop containers
docker stop e2sar-sender e2sar-receiver

# Remove containers
docker rm e2sar-sender e2sar-receiver
```

## Network Configuration

The containers run in host network mode, which means they use the host's network stack directly. This is required for optimal performance in network testing scenarios.

Commit message:

Update README.md to include detailed container build instructions for E2SAR
- Added a new section outlining the steps to build the E2SAR container image from the Dockerfile.
- Included a breakdown of the build process, detailing the base image, dependencies, environment setup, and entrypoint scripts.
- Removed unnecessary whitespace for improved readability.

run-E2SAR/container/README.md, after:

# E2SAR Container Setup

This directory contains the containerized version of E2SAR sender and receiver applications. The setup includes a script to easily start both containers with configurable parameters.

## Prerequisites

- Docker installed and running
- The `e2sar-container` image built from the provided Dockerfile

## Building the Container

Build the E2SAR container image from the Dockerfile in the current directory:

```bash
cd container/
docker build -t e2sar-container .
```

The build process will:
1. Use Ubuntu 22.04 as the base image
2. Install required system dependencies
3. Set up the E2SAR environment
4. Copy the entrypoint scripts for both sender and receiver

You only need to build the container once unless you make changes to the Dockerfile or entrypoint scripts.

## Quick Start

1. Make the start script executable:
```bash
chmod +x start_containers.sh
```

2. Run the containers with minimum required parameters:
```bash
./start_containers.sh \
  --sender-ip <sender_ip> \
  --receiver-ip <receiver_ip> \
  --lb-ip <load_balancer_ip>
```

## Configuration Options

The `start_containers.sh` script supports the following parameters:

| Parameter | Description | Default Value |
|-----------|-------------|---------------|
| --sender-ip | Sender IP address | Required |
| --receiver-ip | Receiver IP address | Required |
| --lb-ip | Load balancer IP address | Required |
| --mtu | MTU size | 9000 |
| --rate | Send rate | 10 |
| --length | Message length | 1000000 |
| --num-events | Number of events | 10000 |
| --buf-size | Buffer size | 314572800 |
| --duration | Test duration in seconds | 30 |
| --port | Receiver port | 19522 |
| --threads | Number of threads | 1 |

## Example Usage

1. Basic usage with only required parameters:
```bash
./start_containers.sh \
  --sender-ip 192.168.1.10 \
  --receiver-ip 192.168.1.11 \
  --lb-ip 192.168.1.100
```

2. Advanced usage with custom parameters:
```bash
./start_containers.sh \
  --sender-ip 192.168.1.10 \
  --receiver-ip 192.168.1.11 \
  --lb-ip 192.168.1.100 \
  --mtu 9000 \
  --rate 20 \
  --length 2000000 \
  --duration 60 \
  --threads 4
```

## Container Management

### View Container Logs
```bash
# View receiver logs
docker logs e2sar-receiver

# View sender logs
docker logs e2sar-sender
```

### Stop and Remove Containers
```bash
# Stop containers
docker stop e2sar-sender e2sar-receiver

# Remove containers
docker rm e2sar-sender e2sar-receiver
```

## Network Configuration

The containers run in host network mode, which means they use the host's network stack directly. This is required for optimal performance in network testing scenarios.
