local-e2sar-test/README.md, before:

# E2SAR Performance Testing in Kubernetes

This directory contains configuration files for running E2SAR (Event-to-Stream Application Runtime) performance tests in a Kubernetes environment. The setup uses Kubernetes Jobs to run sender and receiver components, with persistent storage for logs.

## Overview

The E2SAR performance test consists of:

1. **Sender Pod**: Sends a specified number of events to the receiver
2. **Receiver Pod**: Listens for events from the sender
3. **Log Viewer Pod**: Provides access to logs after the tests complete

The configuration uses persistent volumes to:
- Share the receiver's IP address with the sender
- Store logs from both sender and receiver for later analysis

## Configuration Files

- `e2sar-statefulset.yaml`: Original configuration using StatefulSets (not recommended)
- `e2sar-jobs.yaml`: Improved configuration using Jobs with log persistence and shared volume for IP discovery
- `e2sar-headless.yaml`: Alternative implementation using a headless service for IP discovery (recommended)

## Running the Tests

To run the E2SAR performance tests:

```bash
# First, clean up any existing resources
kubectl delete namespace e2sar-perf --context kind-e2sar-cluster
# Wait for the namespace to be fully deleted
until kubectl get namespace e2sar-perf --context kind-e2sar-cluster 2>&1 | grep -q "not found"; do
  echo "Waiting for namespace to be deleted..."
  sleep 5
done

# Using the headless service approach for IP discovery (recommended)
kubectl apply -f e2sar-headless.yaml --context kind-e2sar-cluster

# OR using the shared volume approach for IP discovery
kubectl apply -f e2sar-jobs.yaml --context kind-e2sar-cluster

# Check the status of the jobs
kubectl get jobs -n e2sar-perf --context kind-e2sar-cluster

# Check the status of the pods
kubectl get pods -n e2sar-perf --context kind-e2sar-cluster
```

## Accessing Logs

Logs are saved to a persistent volume and can be accessed through the log-viewer pod:

```bash
# Get the name of the log-viewer pod
LOG_VIEWER_POD=$(kubectl get pods -n e2sar-perf -l job-name=e2sar-log-viewer -o name --context kind-e2sar-cluster | cut -d/ -f2)

# View sender logs
kubectl exec -it -n e2sar-perf $LOG_VIEWER_POD --context kind-e2sar-cluster -- cat /logs/sender/sender.log

# View receiver logs
kubectl exec -it -n e2sar-perf $LOG_VIEWER_POD --context kind-e2sar-cluster -- cat /logs/receiver/receiver.log
```

The log-viewer pod remains running for 7 days after test completion to allow access to the logs.

## Configuration Parameters

### Sender Configuration

| Parameter | Default | Description |
|-----------|---------|-------------|
| MTU | 512 | Maximum Transmission Unit in bytes |
| RATE | 0.1 | Sending rate in Gbps |
| LENGTH | 512 | Event length in bytes |
| NUM_EVENTS | 10000 | Number of events to send |
| BUF_SIZE | 32768 | Buffer size in bytes |
| DIRECT_MODE | true | Whether to use direct mode (no control plane) |

### Receiver Configuration

| Parameter | Default | Description |
|-----------|---------|-------------|
| DURATION | 300 | Test duration in seconds |
| BUF_SIZE | 32768 | Buffer size in bytes |
| PORT | 19522 | Port to listen on |
| THREADS | 1 | Number of receiver threads |
| DIRECT_MODE | true | Whether to use direct mode (no control plane) |

## Modifying the Configuration

To modify the test parameters, edit the `e2sar-jobs.yaml` file and update the environment variables in the sender and receiver container specifications.

For example, to increase the sending rate:

```yaml
export RATE="1.0"  # Change from 0.1 to 1.0 Gbps
```

Or to increase the test duration:

```yaml
- name: DURATION
  value: "600"  # Change from 300 to 600 seconds
```

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Sender can't connect to receiver**:
   - Check that the receiver pod is running
   - Verify the IP address being used by the sender
   - Check the logs of the init container: `kubectl logs -n e2sar-perf <sender-pod> -c wait-for-receiver --context kind-e2sar-cluster`
   - Ensure the DNS resolution is working correctly

2. **DNS resolution issues**:
   - Check that the service is correctly defined and has the right selector
   - Verify that the receiver pod has the correct labels
   - Try manually resolving the service: `kubectl exec -it -n e2sar-perf <any-pod> --context kind-e2sar-cluster -- nslookup e2sar-receiver-svc.e2sar-perf.svc.cluster.local`

3. **Logs not available**:
   - Check the status of the log-viewer pod
   - Ensure the persistent volume claims are bound
   - Check the logs of the log-saver containers

4. **Performance issues**:
   - Adjust resource limits in the pod specifications
   - Modify bandwidth annotations for network throttling

### Checking Pod Status

```bash
kubectl describe pod -n e2sar-perf <pod-name> --context kind-e2sar-cluster
```

### Checking Persistent Volumes

```bash
kubectl get pvc -n e2sar-perf --context kind-e2sar-cluster
```

### Checking Service and Endpoints

```bash
kubectl get service,endpoints -n e2sar-perf --context kind-e2sar-cluster
```

## Network Architecture

The E2SAR test uses direct pod-to-pod communication without any load balancer in between. The sender pod communicates directly with the receiver pod using the receiver's pod IP address, which is shared via a persistent volume.

The traffic flows:
```
Sender Pod → Pod Network → Receiver Pod
```

### Kubernetes Networking Options

There are several ways to establish communication between pods in Kubernetes:

1. **Direct Pod-to-Pod Communication (current implementation)**
   - Uses the pod's IP address directly
   - Lowest latency and overhead
   - No service discovery or load balancing
   - Requires manual handling of IP discovery (we use a shared volume)
   - Pod IPs are ephemeral and change when pods restart

2. **ClusterIP Service**
   - Creates a stable virtual IP within the cluster
   - Provides service discovery via DNS (e.g., `e2sar-receiver-svc.e2sar-perf.svc.cluster.local`)
   - Performs load balancing if multiple pods match the selector
   - Adds a small network hop through kube-proxy
   - Example configuration:
     ```yaml
     apiVersion: v1
     kind: Service
     metadata:
       name: e2sar-receiver-svc
       namespace: e2sar-perf
     spec:
       selector:
         app: e2sar-receiver
       ports:
       - port: 19522
         targetPort: 19522
     ```

3. **Headless Service**
   - Similar to ClusterIP but without a cluster IP (sets `clusterIP: None`)
   - DNS resolves directly to individual pod IPs rather than to a service IP
   - **No load balancer or proxy** in the data path - traffic goes directly to pods
   - Only adds DNS resolution overhead during initial connection setup
   - Provides service discovery without the kube-proxy overhead
   - Particularly useful for stateful applications that need direct addressing
   - Example configuration:
     ```yaml
     apiVersion: v1
     kind: Service
     metadata:
       name: e2sar-receiver-svc
       namespace: e2sar-perf
     spec:
       clusterIP: None  # This makes it headless
       selector:
         app: e2sar-receiver
       ports:
       - port: 19522
         targetPort: 19522
     ```

4. **NodePort/LoadBalancer Services**
   - Expose services outside the cluster
   - Add more network hops and overhead
   - Not suitable for internal performance testing

### Why Direct Pod-to-Pod for E2SAR?

For the E2SAR performance tests, we chose direct pod-to-pod communication because:

1. **Performance**: Eliminates any overhead from service proxying
2. **Deterministic Routing**: No load balancing to introduce variability
3. **Simplicity**: Direct connection better represents the actual network performance
4. **Test Focus**: We're testing E2SAR performance, not Kubernetes service mechanisms

We provide two implementations for direct pod-to-pod communication:

1. **Shared Volume Approach (`e2sar-jobs.yaml`)**:
   - IP discovery via shared persistent volume
   - Manual but completely transparent to network
   - No DNS resolution overhead
   - Requires an additional PVC for IP sharing

2. **Headless Service Approach (`e2sar-headless.yaml`) - Recommended**:
   - IP discovery via Kubernetes DNS
   - More standard Kubernetes approach
   - Minimal DNS resolution overhead (only during connection setup)
   - Uses standard Kubernetes service discovery
   - No additional PVC required for IP sharing
   - More resilient to pod restarts

Both approaches result in the same direct pod-to-pod communication once the connection is established.

## Implementation Details

### Headless Service Implementation

The headless service implementation (`e2sar-headless.yaml`) uses the following components:

1. **Headless Service**:
   ```yaml
   apiVersion: v1
   kind: Service
   metadata:
     name: e2sar-receiver-svc
     namespace: e2sar-perf
   spec:
     clusterIP: None  # This makes it a headless service
     selector:
       app: e2sar-receiver
     ports:
     - port: 19522
       targetPort: 19522
   ```

2. **Init Container for DNS Resolution**:
   ```yaml
   initContainers:
   - name: wait-for-receiver
     image: busybox:1.28
     command: ["/bin/sh", "-c"]
     args:
     - |
       # Wait for the receiver service DNS to be available
       RECEIVER_SVC="e2sar-receiver-svc.e2sar-perf.svc.cluster.local"
       until nslookup $RECEIVER_SVC > /tmp/nslookup.out; do
         echo "Waiting for receiver service DNS to be available..."
         sleep 5
       done
       
       # Extract the receiver IP from the nslookup output
       RECEIVER_IP=$(grep "Address 1:" /tmp/nslookup.out | tail -n1 | awk '{print $3}')
       echo "Resolved receiver service IP: $RECEIVER_IP"
       
       # Store the IP for the main container
       echo "export RECEIVER_IP=$RECEIVER_IP" > /shared-data/receiver-ip.env
   ```

3. **Shared Volume for IP Passing**:
   ```yaml
   volumes:
   - name: shared-data
     emptyDir: {}
   ```

This approach uses standard Kubernetes DNS resolution to discover the receiver's IP address, which is then passed to the sender container via a shared emptyDir volume.

### Log Persistence

Both implementations use a persistent volume to store logs from the sender and receiver pods. This allows you to access the logs even after the pods have completed their tasks.

The log-viewer pod mounts the same persistent volume and provides access to the logs for 7 days after test completion.

## Network Policy

The configuration includes a NetworkPolicy that allows all traffic. In a production environment, you might want to restrict this to only allow the necessary communication between sender and receiver:

```yaml
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: NetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: e2sar-network-policy
  namespace: e2sar-perf
spec:
  podSelector:
    matchLabels:
      app: e2sar-receiver
  policyTypes:
  - Ingress
  ingress:
  - from:
    - podSelector:
        matchLabels:
          app: e2sar-sender
    ports:
    - protocol: TCP
      port: 19522
```

Commit message:

Add setup instructions for KinD cluster in README
- Added a new section detailing the setup process for a Kubernetes in Docker (KinD) cluster.
- Included commands for creating the cluster, verifying its status, and checking node labels.
- Documented the cluster configuration, emphasizing the use of multiple nodes for performance testing.

local-e2sar-test/README.md, after:

# E2SAR Performance Testing in Kubernetes

This directory contains configuration files for running E2SAR (Event-to-Stream Application Runtime) performance tests in a Kubernetes environment. The setup uses Kubernetes Jobs to run sender and receiver components, with persistent storage for logs.

## Overview

The E2SAR performance test consists of:

1. **Sender Pod**: Sends a specified number of events to the receiver
2. **Receiver Pod**: Listens for events from the sender
3. **Log Viewer Pod**: Provides access to logs after the tests complete

The configuration uses persistent volumes to:
- Share the receiver's IP address with the sender
- Store logs from both sender and receiver for later analysis

## Configuration Files

- `e2sar-statefulset.yaml`: Original configuration using StatefulSets (not recommended)
- `e2sar-jobs.yaml`: Improved configuration using Jobs with log persistence and shared volume for IP discovery
- `e2sar-headless.yaml`: Alternative implementation using a headless service for IP discovery (recommended)

## Setting Up the KinD Cluster

Before running the tests, you need to set up a Kubernetes in Docker (KinD) cluster using the provided configuration:

```bash
# Create a KinD cluster using the provided configuration
kind create cluster --config kind-config.yaml

# Verify the cluster is running
kubectl cluster-info --context kind-e2sar-cluster

# Check the nodes in the cluster
kubectl get nodes --context kind-e2sar-cluster
```

The `kind-config.yaml` file configures a cluster with:
- One control-plane node
- Two worker nodes with custom labels (`node=worker1` and `node=worker2`)
- IPv4 networking with pod subnet `10.244.0.0/16` and service subnet `10.96.0.0/16`

You can verify the node labels with:

```bash
kubectl get nodes --show-labels --context kind-e2sar-cluster
```

This is useful for performance testing to ensure sender and receiver pods run on different physical nodes.

## Running the Tests

To run the E2SAR performance tests:

```bash
# First, clean up any existing resources
kubectl delete namespace e2sar-perf --context kind-e2sar-cluster
# Wait for the namespace to be fully deleted
until kubectl get namespace e2sar-perf --context kind-e2sar-cluster 2>&1 | grep -q "not found"; do
  echo "Waiting for namespace to be deleted..."
  sleep 5
done

# Using the headless service approach for IP discovery (recommended)
kubectl apply -f e2sar-headless.yaml --context kind-e2sar-cluster

# OR using the shared volume approach for IP discovery
kubectl apply -f e2sar-jobs.yaml --context kind-e2sar-cluster

# Check the status of the jobs
kubectl get jobs -n e2sar-perf --context kind-e2sar-cluster

# Check the status of the pods
kubectl get pods -n e2sar-perf --context kind-e2sar-cluster
```

## Accessing Logs

Logs are saved to a persistent volume and can be accessed through the log-viewer pod:

```bash
# Get the name of the log-viewer pod
LOG_VIEWER_POD=$(kubectl get pods -n e2sar-perf -l job-name=e2sar-log-viewer -o name --context kind-e2sar-cluster | cut -d/ -f2)

# View sender logs
kubectl exec -it -n e2sar-perf $LOG_VIEWER_POD --context kind-e2sar-cluster -- cat /logs/sender/sender.log

# View receiver logs
kubectl exec -it -n e2sar-perf $LOG_VIEWER_POD --context kind-e2sar-cluster -- cat /logs/receiver/receiver.log
```

The log-viewer pod remains running for 7 days after test completion to allow access to the logs.

## Configuration Parameters

### Sender Configuration

| Parameter | Default | Description |
|-----------|---------|-------------|
| MTU | 512 | Maximum Transmission Unit in bytes |
| RATE | 0.1 | Sending rate in Gbps |
| LENGTH | 512 | Event length in bytes |
| NUM_EVENTS | 10000 | Number of events to send |
| BUF_SIZE | 32768 | Buffer size in bytes |
| DIRECT_MODE | true | Whether to use direct mode (no control plane) |

### Receiver Configuration

| Parameter | Default | Description |
|-----------|---------|-------------|
| DURATION | 300 | Test duration in seconds |
| BUF_SIZE | 32768 | Buffer size in bytes |
| PORT | 19522 | Port to listen on |
| THREADS | 1 | Number of receiver threads |
| DIRECT_MODE | true | Whether to use direct mode (no control plane) |

## Modifying the Configuration

To modify the test parameters, edit the `e2sar-jobs.yaml` file and update the environment variables in the sender and receiver container specifications.

For example, to increase the sending rate:

```yaml
export RATE="1.0"  # Change from 0.1 to 1.0 Gbps
```

Or to increase the test duration:

```yaml
- name: DURATION
  value: "600"  # Change from 300 to 600 seconds
```

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Sender can't connect to receiver**:
   - Check that the receiver pod is running
   - Verify the IP address being used by the sender
   - Check the logs of the init container: `kubectl logs -n e2sar-perf <sender-pod> -c wait-for-receiver --context kind-e2sar-cluster`
   - Ensure the DNS resolution is working correctly

2. **DNS resolution issues**:
   - Check that the service is correctly defined and has the right selector
   - Verify that the receiver pod has the correct labels
   - Try manually resolving the service: `kubectl exec -it -n e2sar-perf <any-pod> --context kind-e2sar-cluster -- nslookup e2sar-receiver-svc.e2sar-perf.svc.cluster.local`

3. **Logs not available**:
   - Check the status of the log-viewer pod
   - Ensure the persistent volume claims are bound
   - Check the logs of the log-saver containers

4. **Performance issues**:
   - Adjust resource limits in the pod specifications
   - Modify bandwidth annotations for network throttling

### Checking Pod Status

```bash
kubectl describe pod -n e2sar-perf <pod-name> --context kind-e2sar-cluster
```

### Checking Persistent Volumes

```bash
kubectl get pvc -n e2sar-perf --context kind-e2sar-cluster
```

### Checking Service and Endpoints

```bash
kubectl get service,endpoints -n e2sar-perf --context kind-e2sar-cluster
```

## Network Architecture

The E2SAR test uses direct pod-to-pod communication without any load balancer in between. The sender pod communicates directly with the receiver pod using the receiver's pod IP address, which is shared via a persistent volume.

The traffic flows:
```
Sender Pod → Pod Network → Receiver Pod
```

### Kubernetes Networking Options

There are several ways to establish communication between pods in Kubernetes:

1. **Direct Pod-to-Pod Communication (current implementation)**
   - Uses the pod's IP address directly
   - Lowest latency and overhead
   - No service discovery or load balancing
   - Requires manual handling of IP discovery (we use a shared volume)
   - Pod IPs are ephemeral and change when pods restart

2. **ClusterIP Service**
   - Creates a stable virtual IP within the cluster
   - Provides service discovery via DNS (e.g., `e2sar-receiver-svc.e2sar-perf.svc.cluster.local`)
   - Performs load balancing if multiple pods match the selector
   - Adds a small network hop through kube-proxy
   - Example configuration:
     ```yaml
     apiVersion: v1
     kind: Service
     metadata:
       name: e2sar-receiver-svc
       namespace: e2sar-perf
     spec:
       selector:
         app: e2sar-receiver
       ports:
       - port: 19522
         targetPort: 19522
     ```

3. **Headless Service**
   - Similar to ClusterIP but without a cluster IP (sets `clusterIP: None`)
   - DNS resolves directly to individual pod IPs rather than to a service IP
   - **No load balancer or proxy** in the data path - traffic goes directly to pods
   - Only adds DNS resolution overhead during initial connection setup
   - Provides service discovery without the kube-proxy overhead
   - Particularly useful for stateful applications that need direct addressing
   - Example configuration:
     ```yaml
     apiVersion: v1
     kind: Service
     metadata:
       name: e2sar-receiver-svc
       namespace: e2sar-perf
     spec:
       clusterIP: None  # This makes it headless
       selector:
         app: e2sar-receiver
       ports:
       - port: 19522
         targetPort: 19522
     ```

4. **NodePort/LoadBalancer Services**
   - Expose services outside the cluster
   - Add more network hops and overhead
   - Not suitable for internal performance testing

### Why Direct Pod-to-Pod for E2SAR?

For the E2SAR performance tests, we chose direct pod-to-pod communication because:

1. **Performance**: Eliminates any overhead from service proxying
2. **Deterministic Routing**: No load balancing to introduce variability
3. **Simplicity**: Direct connection better represents the actual network performance
4. **Test Focus**: We're testing E2SAR performance, not Kubernetes service mechanisms

We provide two implementations for direct pod-to-pod communication:

1. **Shared Volume Approach (`e2sar-jobs.yaml`)**:
   - IP discovery via shared persistent volume
   - Manual but completely transparent to network
   - No DNS resolution overhead
   - Requires an additional PVC for IP sharing

2. **Headless Service Approach (`e2sar-headless.yaml`) - Recommended**:
   - IP discovery via Kubernetes DNS
   - More standard Kubernetes approach
   - Minimal DNS resolution overhead (only during connection setup)
   - Uses standard Kubernetes service discovery
   - No additional PVC required for IP sharing
   - More resilient to pod restarts

Both approaches result in the same direct pod-to-pod communication once the connection is established.

## Implementation Details

### Headless Service Implementation

The headless service implementation (`e2sar-headless.yaml`) uses the following components:

1. **Headless Service**:
   ```yaml
   apiVersion: v1
   kind: Service
   metadata:
     name: e2sar-receiver-svc
     namespace: e2sar-perf
   spec:
     clusterIP: None  # This makes it a headless service
     selector:
       app: e2sar-receiver
     ports:
     - port: 19522
       targetPort: 19522
   ```

2. **Init Container for DNS Resolution**:
   ```yaml
   initContainers:
   - name: wait-for-receiver
     image: busybox:1.28
     command: ["/bin/sh", "-c"]
     args:
     - |
       # Wait for the receiver service DNS to be available
       RECEIVER_SVC="e2sar-receiver-svc.e2sar-perf.svc.cluster.local"
       until nslookup $RECEIVER_SVC > /tmp/nslookup.out; do
         echo "Waiting for receiver service DNS to be available..."
         sleep 5
       done
       
       # Extract the receiver IP from the nslookup output
       RECEIVER_IP=$(grep "Address 1:" /tmp/nslookup.out | tail -n1 | awk '{print $3}')
       echo "Resolved receiver service IP: $RECEIVER_IP"
       
       # Store the IP for the main container
       echo "export RECEIVER_IP=$RECEIVER_IP" > /shared-data/receiver-ip.env
   ```

3. **Shared Volume for IP Passing**:
   ```yaml
   volumes:
   - name: shared-data
     emptyDir: {}
   ```

This approach uses standard Kubernetes DNS resolution to discover the receiver's IP address, which is then passed to the sender container via a shared emptyDir volume.

### Log Persistence

Both implementations use a persistent volume to store logs from the sender and receiver pods. This allows you to access the logs even after the pods have completed their tasks.

The log-viewer pod mounts the same persistent volume and provides access to the logs for 7 days after test completion.

## Network Policy

The configuration includes a NetworkPolicy that allows all traffic. In a production environment, you might want to restrict this to only allow the necessary communication between sender and receiver:

```yaml
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: NetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: e2sar-network-policy
  namespace: e2sar-perf
spec:
  podSelector:
    matchLabels:
      app: e2sar-receiver
  policyTypes:
  - Ingress
  ingress:
  - from:
    - podSelector:
        matchLabels:
          app: e2sar-sender
    ports:
    - protocol: TCP
      port: 19522
```
